# Creating audit logs

## Async POST endpoint

The audit log creation endpoints is an async endpoint:
- POSTing audit logs does not impact the performance of the caller.
- Audit Service failures are not visible to users (for example, we don’t want to return a 500 error to users who are trying to download).

However, it's difficult to monitor errors when using this endpoint.

## Pulling from a queue

The audit service can also handle pulling audit logs from a queue, which allows for easier monitoring. This can be configured by turning on the `PULL_FROM_QUEUE` flag in the configuration file (enabled by default). Right now, only AWS SQS is integrated, but integrations for other types of queues can be added by adding code and extending the values accepted for the `QUEUE_CONFIG.type` field in the configuration file.

## Timestamps

In most cases, services should **not** provide a timestamp when creating audit logs. The timestamp is only accepted in log creation requests to allow populating the audit database with historical data, for example by parsing historical logs from before the Audit Service was deployed to a Data Commons.

For other use cases, for consistency and to avoid mistakes, the timestamp should either be generated automatically by `audit-service` (when using the API's creation endpoint) or come from the message's `SentTimestamp` (when using AWS SQS).

> Why rely on `SentTimestamp`?

Because `audit-service` sleeps before fetching multiple messages from the SQS, the timestamps generated by `audit-service` at the time it processes the messages may not be accurate. For example, two messages sent to the SQS at the different times could be received by `audit-service` at the same time and end up with the same timestamp.
